# robotface-utils - <|째_째|>

Website-related utility scripts.

This set of utility scripts (initially two, and a library they both use)
were born out of my work at Toronto Public Library.  When I told some
friends about the `chkcertexpiry` script, they thought it was worth
sharing.  My bosses graciously agreed to me publicly releasing these
scripts, which were written and are maintained as part of my work at TPL.
I hope they're useful.

## chkcertexpiry

Live-checks the expiry date of TLS certificates for a set of websites.
Run the script to see a help message.

## tlsdetails

Check a few more details of an individual website, the address of which is
passed on the command line.  Again: run the script to see a help message.

## If You're Using a Mac ...

In 2021 - after TLS v1.3 came into wide use - macOS's versions of `curl`
and `openssl` still didn't support TLS v1.3.  As an attempt to support
people on older Macs, the `robotface_utils` library used by both scripts
attempts to detect other versions of those two programs - notably the
Homebrew versions which are (possibly) better and (have been) more
up-to-date.  If the detection seems to be causing problems or you're sure
you have a modern version of the OS (I know everything's fine with both
Monterey and Ventura on Intel or Mac silicon), use `-s` to use the system
versions of `curl` and `openssl` without bothering to search for other
versions.

## Explanations

Some notes on how this is done (incomplete at this point):

- [Date Math](DateMath.md)
- [Connection and Certificate Details](DissectingTheConnection.md)

## Naming

My initial thought was to name this repository GO-utils, but for most
people that would suggest a connection to a <a
href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Go_(programming_language)">well known
programming language</a> - a connection that doesn't exist.  And I thought
'giles-utils' was a bit too vainglorious.  Then I remembered "`<|째_째|>`,"
a bit of text artwork created by Caravan Palace for their <a
href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robot_Face">2015 album of the same
name</a>.  I consider the track "Lone Digger" to be one of the best songs
of the last decade (the <a
href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UbQgXeY_zi4">video</a> is awesome too,
but violent), so this is "robotface-utils."  This is meant to a tribute to
Caravan Palace: if they come after me with lawyers, I'll fold like a house
of cards and rename it.

## TODO

There are TODO lists in the lead-in comments in each of the scripts,
specific to them.  This list is more general.

- load `robotface_utils` first, move colours into library, then have
  user setting of colours after that

